Collaborate is a user permission level that allows a user to create,
edit, delete, and share assets.
The user can collaborate on shared assets like a dashboard or an annotation.
This permission level also includes read and analyze privileges.
We recommend assigning collaborate access to internal users in your business.
Assets in Google Analytics include objects like annotations,
attribution models, channel groupings,
custom reports, and dashboards.
Let's look at annotations as an example.
Over time, you'll design custom assets and you're going to want to share them internally.
Let's say you made a change to your site and
you wanted to record the date of the change in
GA. You could create a personal note for yourself or a shared note in the account.
Here, you see shared notes about
important changes made to the Google merchandise store account.
If someone in the company is working on analysis and seeing strange trends in the data,
notes like these are provide important context.
We recommend giving internal users in your business
collaborate access so that they can access notes like these and other shared assets.